Conceptual Questions

1) A jogger runs due east along a straight jogging trail that is 2km long.
When she reaches the end of the path, she turns around and runs back to
the west toward her initial starting point. In which direction does her
displacement point after she has run a total distance of 3km.
  West

2) Give an example or two in which the magnitude of the displacement of
a moving object is (a) equal to the distance the object travels and
(b) less than the distance the object travels. (c) Can the magnitude of
the displacement ever be greater than the distance the object travels?
(a)
  An object moves along a straight path.
(b)
  An object moves along a straight path, then moves in the opposite direction.
(c)
  No.

3) Under what conditions is average velocity equal to instantaneous velocity?
  When no acceleration occurs

5) True or false? (a) If an object's average speed is zero, its average velocity
must also be zero. (b) If an object's average velocity is zero, its average speed
must also be zero. Explain the reasoning behind your answers. If the statement
is false, give several examples to show that it is false.
(a)
  Yes. If an object's average speed is zero, it must not move, and therefore
  it will stay in the same place and the average velocity will be zero.
(b)
  No. If an object's average velocity is zero, that just means that it returned
  to the same point within the measured timeframe. It may have stayed there the
  whole time, or it may have traveled to the moon and back before returning to its
  original location. Its average speed could be anywhere between 0 and the speed
  of light.

7) A wind-up toy car is released from rest. It accelerates at up to a maximum
speed over the first 2m it travels before slowing back down to a stop over the
next 5m. If the car travels in the positive direction of its acceleration over
the first 2m it travels before slowing back down to a stop over the next 5m.
If the car travels in the positive direction, what is the direction of its
acceleration (a) over the first 2m and (b) over the last 5m? (c) Over which
distance is the magnitude of the acceleration greater?
(a)
  Positive
(b)
  Negative
(c)
  The first 2m.

14) Figure 2.33 shows the graph of an object's position x as a function of time t.
(a) Does this object ever reverse its direction of motion? If so, where?
  Yes. At the point at which the arc descends, the position x is decreasing, and
  therefore the object is moving in the reverse direction.
(b) Does the object ever return to its starting point?
  Yes. At the furthest right point on the arc, it is back where it started.
(c) Is the velocity of the object constant?
  No. The velocity decreases, then reverses.
(d) Is the object's speed ever zero? If so, where?
  Yes. At the maximum point on the graph.
(e) Does the object have any acceleration?
  Yes. It has a constant (or near constant) acceleration in the negative x direction.

15) Figure 2.34 shows the graph of an object's velocity Vx as a function of time t.
(a) Does this object ever reverse its direction of motion?
  No.
(b) Does the object ever return to its starting point?
  No.
(c) Is the object's speed ever zero? If so, where?
  Yes. At the leftmost and rightmost points on the arc.

Multiple Choice

1) C, D
2) C
3) C
5) C
7) A
9) C
11) B, D
